# Hey, hello there!
Thanks for the time reviewing my work. This task was compiled in a WSL Ubuntu instance. It goes with a CMake project that I prepared so it handle itself (hopefuly) without any manual intervention.

Bellow goes a few comments on the compilation and on each of the proposed steps.

## Setting it up

For cloning my original repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/viniciusreis/ninjarmm_screening
```

After, you can generate the project:
```
cmake -S ninjarmm_screening -B build-ninja -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PWD/installs-ninja
```

Finally you can build and install:
```
cmake --build build-ninja && cmake --install build-ninja
```

When you're finished, to clean it up:
```
rm -rf ninjarmm_screening build-ninja installs-ninja
```

I know you know the trade but it's nice to have a few commands to copy and paste. 

### Step 1 
The required implementations are placed in three .hpp files that have self explanatory names. Each of them are paired with a unit test set, compiled in its own executables and placed in the same installation directory.

A main executable with calls to the implemented functions and classes is also published, but all its cases are covered by the units. You'll find them at:
```
${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/step1
```

As for the free code play two cases were explored, one involving direct manipulation of virtual tables and the other a comparison of the symbols generated by two different implementations using variadic template for solving the same problem (this one by Jason Turner). A small bash script is also available so to speedup the evaluatin. Make sure your have nm and c++filt installed. You'll find it all the directory:

```
${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/step1-free-play
```

### Step 2
The code review was done by placing comments directly on the code. Regardless of the screening result I'd be happy to talk over them if we have a chance.

### Step 3
As for the last step, a solution that strickly fullfills the commented testing code was implemented. There is a commented block at the end that I would alternatively check if it is trasparent to the current code base.

Executable at:
```
${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/step3
```

Happy screening!

Vinícius da Costa Reis
